aliases.
What are those aliases?
Well,
in real life,
Ellis is like a short name or easier name or something easy to remember.
So I'm sure everybody has,
Ah,
nickname when you were growing up.
Um,
and just like other people who are very famous,
Just look at 50 cents he has his real name is Curtis James.
And,
um,
there's another one like another example would be pitbull.
His real name is Armando Paredes.
Eso Those aren't the real names,
but they're Ellis is is shorter.
So the shore aversion and shorter name they have is because easier for people to remember
them since the same way it is his work in Lenox to So there are very long commands that
you'll run almost every day.
But you need a sure aversion off it.
And how do you create a short version or a short reward for it is by creating aliases.
So again,
this is very popular command that is used to cut down on Lenti and repetitive commands.
And some off those examples that I have listed here we will cover those example one by one
in our legs machines that they say you exactly know what how leases work.
So let's go to our machine and we'll go into our or courtroom machine Consul Terminal.
And we will try these aliases command one by one.
So the first Commander having Ellis is is ls so often time If you want to know all the
files of in minus l and a option to listing or a for to also show the head and files,
we will run the command ls minus l eighth or a L.
And you will see all the listing of the files and directories we have in our home directory
.
And this is our home directory.
Simon,
run that command.
Often time,
you'll forget the option.
So what do you do?
Will create an alias,
So we'll create a low Yes.
And instead of just lsl cree tell,
um,
equal coat ls minus a l coat clothes and just hit Enter.
Once you hit,
enter and you don't get an error message back.
It means that aliases created Now,
how do you verify for screen but simply running an alias?
But l l was our alias and let's run it.
And there we go.
We got the up as if you were running whole command.
Let's create another alias,
the other areas what it will do.
It will,
um,
do the PW d for you And also do ls for you.
So to command in one shot that you would you don't have to run twice.
So do pl pl I picked the word just for print working directory and Ellis equal coat pwd and
you separate each command with semi Colin and Elvis and coat closed.
You hit enter.
And now and I'm gonna tie pl I should get pwd and L s command running.
So first let's clear the screen and I'm gonna write pl And there you go.
So the first command it run was pwd Next command ran ls So every time I log into the system
,
I'll just do pl And it will run those two commands for me.
Let's keep going on and let's try our 3rd 1 which has three commands.
Who am I host name and PWD.
So I want you to create the alias on your own.
I'm gonna go onto the next one.
Um,
next one is it will list all the directories inside off my home directory.
I groaned a command ls minus l and a group,
but And the cap right here that you see,
which is on top of number six?
That's it's telling the group group everything.
Um,
that starts with D.
So run that and you will see it crept Everything.
I'm in the output that starts with D.
So off course,
anything that starts with D is what is a directory.
So that's what it's getting.
So I'm gonna create an alias for it,
and I'm gonna call the deal I o r equal coat Vellis minus l and I'm gonna grow up it the d
enter clear the screen and let's see if it's working by typing de ir.
And yes,
it is working.
Then I'm gonna try the last command in my list.
So what last Command is doing?
Sorry,
I just have to move this little mawr and resize this.
It'll see the last command.
So what last Command is doing is,
of course,
it's doing DF minus h.
Let's run DF minus h.
We could output your petitions information the size where's amounted and how much is used.
And the next command is doing the F at Mons.
Age is printing it's walking.
The last column.
I believe he has dollar six close and you will see it is showing you let me make this
smaller too.
So it's listing all everything that is in the last column,
which is a column six.
Now I want to get in that output.
I want to get on Lee the 1st 4 characters off this output.
So I'm gonna run the command again and I'm gonna do cut my A C one through four.
It enter.
And there you go.
This is what it's telling me that the last column,
these air,
the petitions that I have in my Lennox distribution.
Sometimes you do want to run that command just to find out what petitions you have.
You don't want to look at other other information that DF minus it gives you.
So I'm gonna create an alias for that.
So I'll just hit a barrel key off course to bring the command back.
I'll go back all the way to the two beginning of the line by hitting the left arrow key.
I'll type ale.
Yes,
and I'm gonna name this alias as just d equal.
Of course I have to put quotation here.
Double coat.
And there is one little thing you have to change here is you see here dollar sign in Lenox
Dollar sign has what meaning If you guys remember,
dollar sign is actually outputs of variable Whatever that you have variable inside that you
Attash scripting it actually puts it in there so it will think that it's a variable too,
so we don't want to tell its variable.
So how we could,
uh,
change that or how we could tell Lennox not to think it is as a alias.
Eso he has a variable toe put back slash after putting the backslash move or liver to the
end and hit quotation close that enter and it created my alias.
Now if I do d again,
that's clear the screen.
I'm gonna do a D again and very good.
It's doing exactly the same thing we wanted to do except with with all that long,
tedious command you to have to run it all the time.
So it's much easier.
Every time you log into the system,
you type D and you'll get your information.
Isn't that cool?
It is very cool because that's why most of the time people use aliases,
so it will be easier to remember and do the tedious work in a very short amount of time.
Now,
where are those aliases created?
Once you type aliases without any running creating a new command,
just type releases Hit.
Enter.
You will see right here.
It will give you all the aliases that I have created.
He knows right here.
This is Want dessert to another one right here.
And then there are another one right here and the last one.
No,
this was other ones that are already created.
It's already there by the system by default.
It's already there for us,
so I don't have to touch it now.
What if I wanted to remove that alias from the list off?
Elicit a creel simply,
There's a command to do.
It is a new alias and you type the alias name.
So if you notice the first a list we have,
you have his name just deep somewhere.
Just type deep it anay listed.
Let's see if it still exists.
You just type bilious and see if the alias exist there or not.
It does not.
It's gone.
There's another alias de IR until Alias as well.
The I R.
And then I'm gonna try to check if it's there.
Nope.
It's gone.
So it's just that simple.
It's masking something,
it's telling.
Is creating the a shortcut key for you to run in Lenox environment?